Initial fail2ban role (#1)
stuvusIT/fail2ban: README.md

> # Role Name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# fail2ban
```

This role sets up fail2ban.

## Requirements

> No requirements, but can be used in combination with the [nginx](https://github.com/stuvusIT/nginx) role. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An apt-based system with `fail2ban` in a configured repository.
The role can be used in combination with the [nginx](https://github.com/stuvusIT/nginx) role. 
```

## Role Variables

### General

> | Name | Required/Default | Description |

Reviewer: Please indent the tables in order to make them readable in a text editor.

|------|------------------|-------------|
| `fail2ban_bantime` | `3600` | Time to ban hosts. Can be overwritten for individual jails. |
| `fail2ban_findtime` | `600` | If a hosts exceeds `fail2ban_maxretry` violations within this timeframe it will get banned. Can be overwritten for individual jails. |
| `fail2ban_maxretry` | `3` | Maximum violations until ban. Can be overwritten for individual jails. |

> | `fail2ban_enabled` | `False` | On default all jails are disabled and must be enabled individually. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fail2ban_enabled` | `False` | Whether to enable all jails by default. |
```

Wouldn't `True` be a better default? In most cases, one wants to use the jails he configured.

Reviewer: Wouldn't True be a better default? In most cases, one wants to use the jails he configured.

Reviewer 2: Well that's the default in the generic fail2ban config. There are a lot of predefined jails and you can enable them one by one if you need them. Or alternativley if you want to enable all of them you set the `fail2ban_enabled` variable to `true`.

I think it's better to not enable every jail on default, because jails might require specific configurations depending on the host setup (e.g. reverse proxy) and can potentially have a severe impact on the hosts operation if misconfigured.

| `fail2ban_backend` | `systemd` | Default backend used to read logs and detect violations. |
| `fail2ban_logencoding` | `auto` ||
| `fail2ban_ignoreip` | `["127.0.0.1/8"]` | List of IPs that must not get banned. |

### Jails

`fail2ban_jails` is a list of objects with the following attributes:

| Name | Required/Default | Description |
|------|------------------|-------------|
| `name` | :heavy_check_mark: | Name of the jail. |

> | `port` | :heavy_check_mark: | Portnumber to check. Is only considered by certain filters. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `port` | :heavy_check_mark: | Portnumber to check. Is only considered by certain filters. Numbers or names of well-defined ports (e.g. `ssh`, `http`, `sftp`) are allowed. |
```

| `logpath` | :heavy_check_mark: | Logfile to check. |

> | `backend` | :heavy_multiplication_x: | Backend e.g. `systemd` or `auto` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `backend` | `{{ fail2ban_backend }}` | Backend e.g. `systemd` or `auto` |
```

> | `enabled` | `False` | Enables/Disables the jail. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `enabled` | `{{ fail2ban_enabled }}` | Enables/Disables the jail. |
```

> | `maxretry` | :heavy_multiplication_x: | Maximum violations until ban. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `maxretry` | `{{ fail2ban_maxretry }}` | Maximum violations until ban. |
```

> | `bantime` | :heavy_multiplication_x: | Time to ban hosts. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `bantime` | `{{ fail2ban_bantime }}` | Time to ban hosts. |
```

> | `findtime` | :heavy_multiplication_x: | If a hosts exceeds `fail2ban_maxretry` or respectively `maxretry` violations within this timeframe it will get banned. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `findtime` | `{{ fail2ban_findtime }}` | If a hosts exceeds `fail2ban_maxretry` or respectively `maxretry` violations within this timeframe it will get banned. |
```

| `filters` | :heavy_multiplication_x: | Name of the filter to be applied. |
| `action` | :heavy_multiplication_x: | Name of the action to be applied if a filter matches. |

## Example Playbook

```
fail2ban_jails:
  - name: wordpress

>     port: http,https

Reviewer: `port` seems to be a string that contains a comma-separated list. I suggest using the ansible list type instead. In the template, you can use `{{ port | join(",") }}`.
We could also define an empty list as default, then we only have to set this key when we actually need it for the jail.

Reviewer 2: Seems like a good idea.

| `fail2ban_findtime`    | `600`             | If a hosts exceeds `fail2ban_maxretry` violations within this timeframe it will get banned. Can be overwritten for individual jails. |
| `fail2ban_maxretry`    | `3`               | Maximum violations until ban. Can be overwritten for individual jails.                                                               |
| `fail2ban_enabled`     | `False`           | Whether to enable all jails by default.                                                                                              |
| `fail2ban_backend`     | `systemd`         | Default backend used to read logs and detect violations.                                                                             |
| `fail2ban_logencoding` | `auto`            |                                                                                                                                      |
| `fail2ban_ignoreip`    | `["127.0.0.1/8"]` | List of IPs that must not get banned.                                                                                                |

### Jails

> `fail2ban_jails` is a list of objects with the following attributes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`fail2ban_jails` is a dict where the key corresponds to the jail name and the value is an object with the following attributes:
```

| Name       | Required/Default          | Description                                                                                                                                            |
|------------|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | `name`     | :heavy_check_mark:        | Name of the jail.                                                                                                                                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| `fail2ban_logencoding` | `auto`            |                                                                                                                                      |
| `fail2ban_ignoreip`    | `["127.0.0.1/8"]` | List of IPs that must not get banned.                                                                                                |

### Jails

`fail2ban_jails` is a list of objects with the following attributes:

| Name       | Required/Default          | Description                                                                                                                                            |
|------------|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `name`     | :heavy_check_mark:        | Name of the jail.                                                                                                                                      |

> | `port`     | :heavy_check_mark:        | List of port numbers to check. Is only considered by certain filters. Numbers or names of well-defined ports (e.g. `ssh`, `http`, `sftp`) are allowed. |

Reviewer: Please rename this attribute to `ports`
